README.md, before:

# Celery Scheduler

A Docker implementation of Celery running on Flask, managed with supervisord.

## Why do I need this?

Celery Scheduler allows you to setup a powerful, distributed and fuss-free application task scheduler. Once you set it up on a server, it can reliably run scheduled tasks at regular defined intervals.

All you need to do is to [define your task method](app/tasks/test.py), and the [task schedule](celeryconfig.py), and Celery Scheduler will handle the rest for you.

Some interesting uses for your own task scheduler include:
- Home automation (IOT projects)
- Data Workflow management for Business Intelligence (BI)
- Triggering Email campaigns
- Any other routine, periodic tasks

## How does it work?

This is a scheduler application powered by [Celery](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/index.html) running on a minimal python web framework, [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/).

The application is process-managed by [Supervisord](http://supervisord.org/) which takes care of managing celery task workers, celerybeat and Redis as the message broker.

The deployment of the application is handled through [Docker](https://www.docker.com/what-docker) which isolates the application environment. It allows the application to run the same, whether locally, in staging or when deployed within a server.

# Getting Started

## Running this setup

This setup is built for deployment with Docker. You may also choose to run this setup without Docker however no script is provided. Setup instructions can be interpreted from the given Dockerfile.

Deployment with Docker is recommended for consistency of application environment.

1. Clone the repository
```bash
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/channeng/celery-scheduler.git
cd celery-scheduler
```

2. Install Docker
	- [Mac or Windows](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)
	- [Ubuntu server](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-16-04)
		- To install docker in Ubuntu, you may run the install script:
		```bash
		sudo bash scripts/startup/ubuntu_docker_setup.sh
		```

*Note*: You may need to run the following docker commands with `sudo` prefix if docker was set up to run with root.

3. Build docker image
	```bash
	docker build -t celery-scheduler .
	```
4. (Optional) Stop any containers running on existing docker image
	```bash
	docker stop $(docker ps -f ancestor=celery-scheduler --format "{{.ID}}")
	```
5. Run supervisord with docker container
	```bash
	docker run -p 3020:80 -d celery-scheduler /usr/bin/supervisord --nodaemon
	```

## Checking successful deployment
- Enter bash terminal of running Docker container
	```bash
	docker exec -i -t $(docker ps -f ancestor=celery-scheduler --format "{{.ID}}") /bin/bash
	```
- Check all required processes are running: 
	```bash
	ps aux
	```

	You shoud see something like the following:
	```
	USER       PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
	root         1  0.0  2.5  56492 12728 ?        Ss   Oct21   0:05 /usr/bin/python /usr/bin/supervisord --nodaemon
	root         7  0.0  0.5  31468  2616 ?        Sl   Oct21   0:30 /home/ubuntu/celery-scheduler/redis-3.2.1/src/redis-server *:6379
	root         8  0.0  8.3  98060 41404 ?        S    Oct21   0:00 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/python2.7 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/celery beat -A ap
	root         9  0.1  8.4  91652 41900 ?        S    Oct21   0:42 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/python2.7 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/celery worker -A
	root        20  0.0  9.3  99540 46820 ?        S    Oct21   0:00 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/python2.7 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/celery worker -A
	```
- Retrieving logs
	```bash
	tail /var/log/redis/redis.log
	tail /var/log/celery/beat.log
	tail /var/log/celery/worker.log
	tail /var/log/supervisor/supervisord.log
	```
- You should also see the task print_hello running every minute in your worker.log
	```bash
	tail -f /var/log/celery/worker.log
	```
	Output:
	```bash
	[2017-10-22 03:18:00,050: INFO/MainProcess] Received task: app.tasks.test.print_hello[aa1b7700-1665-4751-ada2-35aba5670d40]
	[2017-10-22 03:18:00,051: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-1] app.tasks.test.print_hello[aa1b7700-1665-4751-ada2-35aba5670d40]: Hello
	[2017-10-22 03:18:00,052: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-1] Task app.tasks.test.print_hello[aa1b7700-1665-4751-ada2-35aba5670d40] succeeded in 0.000455291003163s: None
	```

- If successfully deployed, supervisor logs should display:
	```bash
	INFO success: redis entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 10 seconds (startsecs)
	INFO success: celerybeat entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 10 seconds (startsecs)
	INFO success: celery entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 10 seconds (startsecs)
	```

# Adding tasks to Celery

- Task scripts should be written and stored in app/tasks.
- Update `celeryconfig.py` for new tasks and trigger times.
- Remember to rebuild the docker image after updating for new tasks.

## Running adhoc tasks

- Update `manage.py` for a manager command for the task to run on trigger
- Run: ```python manage.py <manager_command>```
- Eg.
	```bash
	source /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/activate
	python manage.py test
	```

## Terminating Supervisor within container

```bash
supervisorctl stop all
```

## Contributing
Feel free to submit Pull Requests.
For any other enquiries, you may contact me at channeng@gmail.com.

Commit message:

Update to link to Medium

README.md, after:

# Celery Scheduler

A Docker implementation of Celery running on Flask, managed with supervisord.

A walkthrough of this setup is documented at this [Medium article](https://medium.com/@channeng/setting-up-a-task-scheduler-application-with-celery-flask-part-1-8652265050dc).

## Why do I need this?

Celery Scheduler allows you to setup a powerful, distributed and fuss-free application task scheduler. Once you set it up on a server, it can reliably run scheduled tasks at regular defined intervals.

All you need to do is to [define your task method](app/tasks/test.py), and the [task schedule](celeryconfig.py), and Celery Scheduler will handle the rest for you.

Some interesting uses for your own task scheduler include:
- Home automation (IOT projects)
- Data Workflow management for Business Intelligence (BI)
- Triggering Email campaigns
- Any other routine, periodic tasks

## How does it work?

This is a scheduler application powered by [Celery](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/index.html) running on a minimal python web framework, [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/).

The application is process-managed by [Supervisord](http://supervisord.org/) which takes care of managing celery task workers, celerybeat and Redis as the message broker.

The deployment of the application is handled through [Docker](https://www.docker.com/what-docker) which isolates the application environment. It allows the application to run the same, whether locally, in staging or when deployed within a server.

# Getting Started

## Running this setup

This setup is built for deployment with Docker. You may also choose to run this setup without Docker however no script is provided. Setup instructions can be interpreted from the given Dockerfile.

Deployment with Docker is recommended for consistency of application environment.

1. Clone the repository
```bash
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/channeng/celery-scheduler.git
cd celery-scheduler
```

2. Install Docker
	- [Mac or Windows](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/)
	- [Ubuntu server](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-16-04)
		- To install docker in Ubuntu, you may run the install script:
		```bash
		sudo bash scripts/startup/ubuntu_docker_setup.sh
		```

*Note*: You may need to run the following docker commands with `sudo` prefix if docker was set up to run with root.

3. Build docker image
	```bash
	docker build -t celery-scheduler .
	```
4. (Optional) Stop any containers running on existing docker image
	```bash
	docker stop $(docker ps -f ancestor=celery-scheduler --format "{{.ID}}")
	```
5. Run supervisord with docker container
	```bash
	docker run -p 3020:80 -d celery-scheduler /usr/bin/supervisord --nodaemon
	```

## Checking successful deployment
- Enter bash terminal of running Docker container
	```bash
	docker exec -i -t $(docker ps -f ancestor=celery-scheduler --format "{{.ID}}") /bin/bash
	```
- Check all required processes are running: 
	```bash
	ps aux
	```

	You shoud see something like the following:
	```
	USER       PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
	root         1  0.0  2.5  56492 12728 ?        Ss   Oct21   0:05 /usr/bin/python /usr/bin/supervisord --nodaemon
	root         7  0.0  0.5  31468  2616 ?        Sl   Oct21   0:30 /home/ubuntu/celery-scheduler/redis-3.2.1/src/redis-server *:6379
	root         8  0.0  8.3  98060 41404 ?        S    Oct21   0:00 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/python2.7 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/celery beat -A ap
	root         9  0.1  8.4  91652 41900 ?        S    Oct21   0:42 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/python2.7 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/celery worker -A
	root        20  0.0  9.3  99540 46820 ?        S    Oct21   0:00 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/python2.7 /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/celery worker -A
	```
- Retrieving logs
	```bash
	tail /var/log/redis/redis.log
	tail /var/log/celery/beat.log
	tail /var/log/celery/worker.log
	tail /var/log/supervisor/supervisord.log
	```
- You should also see the task print_hello running every minute in your worker.log
	```bash
	tail -f /var/log/celery/worker.log
	```
	Output:
	```bash
	[2017-10-22 03:18:00,050: INFO/MainProcess] Received task: app.tasks.test.print_hello[aa1b7700-1665-4751-ada2-35aba5670d40]
	[2017-10-22 03:18:00,051: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-1] app.tasks.test.print_hello[aa1b7700-1665-4751-ada2-35aba5670d40]: Hello
	[2017-10-22 03:18:00,052: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-1] Task app.tasks.test.print_hello[aa1b7700-1665-4751-ada2-35aba5670d40] succeeded in 0.000455291003163s: None
	```

- If successfully deployed, supervisor logs should display:
	```bash
	INFO success: redis entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 10 seconds (startsecs)
	INFO success: celerybeat entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 10 seconds (startsecs)
	INFO success: celery entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 10 seconds (startsecs)
	```

# Adding tasks to Celery

- Task scripts should be written and stored in app/tasks.
- Update `celeryconfig.py` for new tasks and trigger times.
- Remember to rebuild the docker image after updating for new tasks.

## Running adhoc tasks

- Update `manage.py` for a manager command for the task to run on trigger
- Run: ```python manage.py <manager_command>```
- Eg.
	```bash
	source /home/ubuntu/.virtualenvs/celery_env/bin/activate
	python manage.py test
	```

## Terminating Supervisor within container

```bash
supervisorctl stop all
```

## Contributing
Feel free to submit Pull Requests.
For any other enquiries, you may contact me at channeng@gmail.com.
